.\" Someone tell emacs that this is an -*- nroff -*- source file.
.TH PPPCONFIG 8 "Version 2.3.16" "Debian GNU/Linux"
.SH NAME
pppconfig \- configure pppd to connect to the Internet
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pppconfig
[--version] | [--help] | [[--dialog] | [--whiptail] | [--gdialog] [--noname] | [providername]]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B pppconfig
is a
.B dialog
based interactive, menu driven utility to help automate setting up a dial
out ppp connection.
It provides extensive explanations at each step.
pppconfig supports PAP, CHAP, and chat methods of authentication.
It uses
the standard ppp configuration files and sets ppp up so that the standard
pon and poff commands can be used to control ppp.
Some features supported by pppconfig are:
.br
- Multiple ISP's with separate nameservers.
.br
- Modem detection.
.br
- Dynamic DNS.
.br
- Dial on demand.
.br
- Allow non-root users to run ppp.
.br
- Uses the gdialog GUI dialog replacement if possible.


Before running pppconfig you should know what sort of authentication your
isp requires, the username and password that they want you to use, and the
phone number.  If they require you to use chat authentication, you will
also need to know the login and password prompts and any other prompts and
responses required for login.  If you can't get this information from your
isp you could try dialing in with minicom and working through the procedure
until you get the garbage that indicates that ppp has started on the other
end.

.B pppconfig
allows you to configure connections to multiple providers.
For example, you might call your isp 'provider', your employer 'theoffice'
and your university 'theschool'.
Then you can connect to your isp with 'pon',
your office with 'pon theoffice', and your university with 'pon
theschool'.

It can determine which serial port your modem is on, but the serial port
must already be configured.  This is normally done when installing Linux.

It can help you set your nameservers, or, if your ISP uses 'dynamic DNS',
it can set up ppp to use that.

It can configure ppp for demand dialing, so that your ppp connection will
come up automatically.  It will not, however, start pppd for you.  You must
still start pppd yourself ('pon' will do it).  Pppd will then wait in the
background for you to attempt to access the Net and bring up the link.

If you select "Static" in the "Configure Nameservers" screen pppconfig will
create a file in the /etc/ppp/resolv directory named after the provider you
are configuring and containing "nameserver" lines for each of the IP
numbers you gave.  This file will be substituted for /etc/resolv.conf when
the connection comes up.  The provider name is passed in the ipparam
variable so that 0dns-up knows which file to use.  The original resolv.conf
will be put back when the connection goes down.  You can edit this file if
you wish and add such things as "search" or "domain" directives or
additional nameservers.  Be sure and read the resolv.conf man page first,
though.  The "search" and "domain" directives probably do not do what you
think they do.

If you select "dynamic" in the "Configure Nameservers" screen pppconfig
will configure pppd for 'dynamic DNS' and create a file in the
/etc/ppp/resolv directory named after the provider you are configuring but
containing nothing.  When the connection comes up the nameservers supplied
by your ISP will be added and the file substituted for /etc/resolv.conf.
You can edit this file if you wish and add such things as "search" or
"domain" directives or additional nameservers.

If you select "None" in the "Configure Nameservers" screen pppconfig will
create no file in /etc/ppp/resolv and will leave /etc/resolv.conf
alone. ipparam is not set to the provider name and so is free for the
administrator to use.

.SH FILES
.B /etc/ppp/peers/provider
is the standard pppd options file for the default service provider.

.B /etc/ppp/peers/<name>
is the pppd options file for the provider that you have named <name>.

.B /etc/ppp/peers/provider.bak
is a backup copy of /etc/ppp/peers/provider.

.B /etc/chatscripts/provider
is the standard chat script for the default service provider.

.B /etc/chatscripts/<name>
is the chat script for the provider that you have named <name>.

.B /etc/chatscripts/provider.bak
is a backup copy of /etc/chatscripts/provider.

.B /etc/ppp/resolv
is a directory where resolv.conf files for each provider are stored. 

.B /etc/ppp/ip-up.d/0dns-up
is a script that arranges for the correct
resolv.conf file to be copied into place when a connection comes up.

.B /etc/ppp/ip-down.d/0dns-down
is a script that arranges for the original
resolv.conf file to be copied into place when a connection goes down.

.B /etc/init.d/dns-clean
is a script that runs 0dns-down at bootup to clean up any mess left
by a crash.

.B /var/run/pppconfig
is a directory where temporary files created by 0dns-up are stored.

.B /var/run/pppconfig/resolv.conf.bak.<provider> 
is a backup copy of the
original resolv.conf file.  0dns-down restores /etc/resolv.conf from it.

.B /var/run/pppconfig/0dns.<provider>
is a backup copy of the resolv.conf
file for <provider>.  0dns-down uses it to determine if /etc/resolv.conf
has been overwritten by another process.

.B /etc/ppp/pap-secrets
and
.B /etc/ppp/chap-secrets
are described in the pppd documentation.
pppconfig may add lines to these files and will change lines that
it previously added.
.SH NOTES
.B pppconfig
requires pppd 2.3.7 or higher.
.SH TO DO
Add full support for MSCHAP.
.SH BUGS
Don't tell pppconfig to find your modem while pppd is running.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B chat(8), gpppon(1), plog(1), poff(1), pon(1), pppd(8), 
and
.B whiptail(1).
.SH AUTHOR
.B pppconfig
was written by John Hasler <jhasler@debian.org>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.B This man page may be treated as if it were
.B in the public domain.  I waive all rights.

